{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 In the period after Second World War and the move towards post-colonial politics, and especially after 1968, with the rise of identity-based social movements, the question of diversity came to the fore. Will Kymlicka, in his account of the development of minority rights in multicultural states, argued that an original view of culturally, ethnically, and linguistically homogeneous nations was the ideal model on which much of Western political theory has been based. Influenced by this perspective, governments have frequently followed policies designed to ensure or maintain the nation\'92s homogeneity. Mechanisms such as expulsion, extermination, assimilation, and segregation have all been leveraged in various attempts to maintain the unified homogeneity of the nation-state itself \\cite\{kymlicka-citizenship\}. In the period following First World War, the \'93right to national self-determination\'94 formulated by Woodrow Wilson was a touchstone for this question of multiethnic or multinational polities, but the unstable political system that resulted issued in the ethnic-cleansing and attempted unifications of Germany on the eve of the Second World War. \
In the post-war period, the concept of human rights took over from \'93national self-determination\'94 as the dominant way of thinking about minority rights, multiculturalism, and multinational states. However, the very universality of human rights discourse tended to prevent the consideration of minority or community rights as such. This derives fundamentally from the \'93methodological individualism\'94 that characterizes liberal political theory. Kymlicka writes that as long as 
\f1\i individual 
\f0\i0 rights were guaranteed, \'93no further rights needed to be attributed to the members of specific ethnic or national minorities\'94 \\cite\{kymlicka-citizenship\}. It is important to recognize that the 
\f1\i universality 
\f0\i0 of human rights was predicated on the 
\f1\i individual
\f0\i0  application of those rights. }